We will not pay for:
Claims for costs or expenses incurred outside the Period Of Insurance.
Claims involving consequential loss of any kind including, but not limited to, loss of enjoyment or any financial loss not specifically covered in the policy.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from loss, theft or damage to property, or death, illness or bodily injury if You fail to take reasonable care or put Yourself in a situation where a reasonable person could foresee that loss, theft or damage to property, or a death, illness or bodily injury might happen.
Claims involving air travel other than as a passenger on a fully licensed passenger carrying aircraft operated by an airline or an air charter company.
Claims arising as a result of war, invasion, act of foreign enemy, hostilities (whether war be declared or not), civil war, rebellion, revolution, insurrection or military or usurped power.
Claims arising directly or indirectly from any nuclear reaction or contamination, ionising rays or radioactivity.
Loss or damage caused by detention, confiscation or destruction by customs or other officials or authorities.
Claims arising from any unlawful act committed by You or if You have not been honest and frank with all answers, the accuracy of information, statements and submissions made in connection with Your insurance application or claim.
Claims arising from any government intervention, prohibition, regulation or restriction or court order.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from circumstances You knew of, or a reasonable person in Your circumstances would know or foresee, at the Relevant Time, that could lead to the Journey being delayed, abandoned or cancelled.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from travel booked or undertaken by You:
a) even though You knew, or a reasonable person in Your circumstances would know, You were unfit to travel, whether or not You had sought medical advice;
b) against the advice of a medical practitioner;
c) to seek or obtain medical or dental advice, treatment or review; or
d) to participate in a clinical trial.
Claims in respect of travel booked or undertaken after Your Terminal Illness was diagnosed.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from, or exacerbated by, any Existing Medical Condition You or Your travelling companion has.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from or exacerbated by Your Existing Medical Condition of Cardiovascular Disease, chronic lung condition or other heart/cardiovascular/respiratory system problem and any subsequent condition including an acute respiratory condition, Heart Attack, new infection or Stroke.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from or exacerbated by Your Existing Medical Condition of reduced immunity.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from pregnancy of You or any other person if You are aware of the pregnancy at the Relevant Time and:
a) where complications of this pregnancy or any previous pregnancy had occurred prior to this time;
b) it was a multiple pregnancy e.g. twins or triplets; or
c) where the conception was medically assisted e.g. using assisted fertility treatment including hormone therapies or IVF.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from:
a) pregnancy of You or any other person after the start of the 24th week of pregnancy; or
b) pregnancy of You or any other person where the problem arising is not an unexpected serious medical complication.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from childbirth or the health of a newborn child whatever the proximate cause of the claim is. This exclusion applies irrespective of the stage of pregnancy at which the child is born.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from You having elective medical or dental treatment or surgery, a cosmetic procedure or body modification (including tattoos and piercings) during the Journey.
Claims involving or directly or indirectly arising from Your suicide, attempted suicide, self-inflicted injury or condition, stress, travel exhaustion, any conduct engaged in whilst under the influence or effect of alcohol or drugs, the effect of or chronic use of alcohol or drugs or the transmission of any sexually transmittable disease or virus.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from or exacerbated by the health of a Relative or Your business partner who are not travelling, unless that person lives in Australia and at the Relevant Time that person:
a) had not been hospitalised in the previous 2 years for a condition that was directly or indirectly arising from or related to the condition that caused the claim;
b) did not reside in a nursing home or require similar home care assistance;
c) was not on a waiting list for, or did not know they needed surgery, inpatient treatment or tests at a hospital or clinic;
d) did not have a drug or alcohol addiction; and e) did not have a Terminal Illness.
Claims directly or indirectly arising from, or exacerbated by the health of any other person (not listed in point 21 above) who is known to You prior to the Relevant Time.
Any Goods and Services Tax (GST) liability or any fine, charge or penalty You are liable for because of a failure to fully disclose to Us Your input tax credit entitlement for the Amount Payable.
Losses for which insurance or the payment is prohibited by law.
Claims arising from the failure of any travel agent, tour operator, accommodation provider, airline or other carrier, car rental agency or any other travel or tourism services provider to provide services or accommodation due to their Insolvency or the Insolvency of any person, company or organisation they deal with.
Claims involving You travelling (during the Journey) in International Waters in a private sailing vessel or a privately registered vessel.
Claims involving participation by You or Your travelling companion in hunting; racing (other than on foot); polo playing; hang gliding; off-piste snow skiing or snowboarding; rodeo riding; BASE jumping; moto cross; freestyle BMX riding; running with the bulls; sports activities in a Professional capacity; mountaineering or rock climbing using guides, ropes, rock climbing equipment or oxygen; scuba diving unless You hold an Open Water Diving Certificate or are diving with a qualified diving instructor.
Claims involving participation by You (during the Journey) in motorcycling for any purpose.
Claims involving participation by You (during the Journey) in On-Piste snow skiing, On-Piste snowboarding or snowmobiling.
Claims directly or indirectly for or related to Your cruise, any cruise travel or that arise whilst on a cruise.