GENERAL EXCLUSIONS
APPLICABLE TO ALL SECTIONS
We will not pay under any circumstances if:
WORDING
A.1] You intentionally or recklessly act in a way that would
reasonably pose a risk to your safety or the safety of your luggage
and personal effects, except in an attempt to protect the safety of a
person or to protect property.
A.2] You do not do everything you can to reduce your loss as much
as possible.
A.3] Your claim is for consequential loss of any kind including loss
of enjoyment.
A.4] Your claim arises as a result of you or your travelling
companion changing plans, or the breakdown or dissolution of any
personal or family relationship.
A.5] At the time of purchasing this product, you were aware of
something that would give rise to you making a claim under
your policy.
A.6] Your claim is for a loss which is recoverable by compensation
under any workers compensation or transport accident laws or by
any government sponsored fund, plan, or medical benefit scheme, or
any other similar type legislation required to be effected by or under
a law.
A.7] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, you engaging in manual work in conjunction with
any profession, business or trade during your journey. For the
purpose of this exclusion, manual work includes:
• the use of plant, machinery, or power tools,
• work in the building trades, security, professional sports,
emergency services, extracting, manufacturing, forestry, alcohol
or entertainment industries, or
• working at sea or as aircrew.
A.8] Your claim arises from errors or omissions in any booking
arrangements or failure to obtain relevant visa, passport or
travel documents.
WORDING
A.9] Your claim arises from the refusal, failure or inability of any
person, company or organisation (including but not limited to any
airline, or other transportation provider, hotel, car rental agency, tour
or cruise operator, travel wholesaler, booking agent or other provider
of travel or tourism related services, facilities or accommodation),
to provide services, facilities or accommodation, by reason of their
own insolvency or the insolvency of any person, company or
organisation with whom or with which they deal.
A.10] Your claim arises because you breach any government
prohibition or regulation, including visa requirements, or intentionally
act illegally.
A.11] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any
way connected with, the conduct of someone who enters your
accommodation with your consent, or whose accommodation you
choose to enter.
A.12] Your claim arises from a government authority confiscating,
detaining or destroying anything.
A.13] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with:
• you driving a motor vehicle or riding a moped or scooter
without a current Australian drivers licence or drivers licence
valid for the country you are driving or riding in. This applies
even if you are not required by law to hold a licence in the
country you are driving or riding in;
• you riding a motorcycle without a current Australian motorcycle
licence or motorcycle licence valid for the country you are riding
in. This applies even if you are not required to hold a motorcycle
licence because you hold a drivers licence, or a motorcycle
licence is not required by law in the country you are riding in;
• you travelling as a passenger on a motorcycle, moped or
scooter that is in the control of a person who does not hold a
current motorcycle or drivers licence valid for the vehicle being
ridden and for the country you are riding in;
• you riding, or travelling as a passenger, on a motorcycle with an
engine capacity greater than 250cc or on a quad bike except as
provided under the ADDITIONAL OPTION - ADVENTURE PACK
and you have paid the additional premium for ADVENTURE
PACK;
• you riding, or travelling as a passenger, on a motorcycle,
moped, scooter or quad bike without wearing a helmet.
WORDING
A.14] Your claim arises from, is related to or associated with:
• an actual or likely epidemic or pandemic; or
• the threat of an epidemic or pandemic.
Refer to www.who.int and www.smartraveller.gov.au for further
information on epidemics and pandemics.
A.15] Your claim arises from, or is associated with, travel to
countries or parts of a country for which:
1 a]. an advice or warning has been released by the Australian
Government Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade or any other
government or official body, and
1 b]. the advice or warning risk rating is “Reconsider your need to
travel” or “Do not travel” (or words to that effect) or the advice or
warnings advise against all non-essential travel to or in that location
or advise against specific transport arrangements or participation in
specific events or activities, or
2. the mass media has indicated the existence or potential existence
of circumstances (including circumstances referred to in 1 a] and 1
b] above) that may affect your travel;
And
3. you did not take appropriate action to avoid or minimise any
potential claim under your policy (including delay of travel to the
country or part of the country referred to in the relevant advice(s),
warning(s) and/or mass media statement(s) ).
Circumstances, in this case, includes but are not limited to strike,
riot, weather event, civil protest or contagious disease (including an
epidemic or pandemic).
A.16] Your claim arises from any act of war, whether war is declared
or not, or from any rebellion, revolution, insurrection or taking of
power by the military.
A.17] Your claim arises from a nuclear reaction or contamination
from nuclear weapons or radioactivity.
A.18] Your claim arises from biological and/or chemical materials,
substances, compounds or the like used directly or indirectly for the
purpose to harm or to destroy human life and/or create public fear.
WORDING
B.1] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, any pre-existing medical condition of any person
including you, your travelling companion or a relative except as
provided under sub-section 2.1.1 e], and sub-section 3.1.1. e].
This exclusion will not apply:
• if you satisfy the provisions as set out under the heading PREEXISTING MEDICAL CONDITIONS WHICH MAY BE COVERED
WITH NO ADDITIONAL PREMIUM PAYABLE contained in the
PRE-EXISTING MEDICAL CONDITIONS section , or
• as provided in your Medical Terms of Cover letter and from the
time any additional premium that applies has been received by
us for pre-existing medical conditions for which you must
apply for cover and for which approval has been given by us.
Special conditions, limits and excesses may apply if we notify
you in writing.
B.2] Your claim arises from, is related to or associated with any
physical or mental signs or symptoms that you were aware of, or a
reasonable person in your circumstances would have been aware, of
before cover commenced, and:
a] you had not yet sought a medical opinion regarding the cause; or
b] you were currently under investigation to define a diagnosis; or
c] you were awaiting specialist opinion.
B.3] Your claim is in respect of travel booked or undertaken against
the advice of any medical adviser.
B.4] Your claim arises from any medical condition where a
metastatic or terminal prognosis was made prior to the issue of your
Certificate of Insurance.
B.5] Your claim arises directly or indirectly out of pregnancy,
childbirth or related complications unless it is a single, uncomplicated
pregnancy (up to and including 23 weeks) or we have agreed
in writing to provide cover. In any event we will not pay medical
expenses for:
• regular antenatal care;
• childbirth at any gestation; or
• care of the newborn child.
WORDING
B.6] your claim arises from or is in any way related to or connected
with:
• you or any other person being hospitalised or confined to a
clinic, where you or that other person (as the case may be)
is being treated for addiction to drugs, substances or alcohol,
or is using the hospital or clinic as a nursing, convalescent or
rehabilitation place; or
• a therapeutic or illicit drug, substance or alcohol addiction
suffered by you or any other person.
B.7] Your claim involves the cost of medication in use at the time the
journey began or the cost for maintaining a course of treatment you
were on prior to the start of the journey.
B.8] Your claim arises from suicide or attempted suicide of
any person.
B.9] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, a sexually transmitted disease or virus, unless we
have agreed in writing to provide cover as set out in your Medical
Terms of Cover letter and you have paid any additional premium
that applies.
B.10] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with you being under the influence of any intoxicating
liquor or drugs except a drug prescribed to you by a medical
adviser, and taken in accordance with their instructions.
B.11] Despite the advice given following your call to Allianz Global
Assistance, you received private hospital or medical treatment
where public funded services or care is available in Australia or under
any Reciprocal Health Care Agreement between the Government
of Australia and the government of any other country.
B.12] Your claim arises from any medical procedures in relation to
AICD/ICD insertion during overseas travel. If you, your travelling
companion or a relative (as listed on your Certificate of
Insurance) requires this procedure, due to sudden and acute onset
which occurs for the first time during your period of cover and not
directly or indirectly related to a pre-existing medical condition,
we will exercise our right based on medical advice, to organise a
repatriation to Australia for this procedure to be completed.
B.13] Your claim arises from or is any way related to the death or
hospitalisation of any person aged 85 years and over, who is not listed
on the Certificate of Insurance, regardless of the country in which
they may live.
WORDING
B.14] Your claim arises from, is related to or associated with elective
surgery, or treatment.
B.15] Your claim arises, or is a consequence of complications from
medical, surgical or dental procedures or treatments that are not for
an injury or sickness that would be otherwise be covered by
this policy.
B.16] Your claim arises from, or is in any way related to or
associated with any loss, damage, liability, event, occurrence,
injury or sickness where providing such cover would result in us
contravening the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth), the Private Health
Insurance Act 2007 (Cth) or the National Health Act 1953 (Cth) or
where Allianz does not have the necessary licenses or authority to
provide such cover.
C.1] Your claim arises from, or is in any way connected with you
participating in any sports or recreational activities not listed in
the AUTOMATICALLY INCLUDED SPORTS AND ACTIVITIES list
in the PURCHASING THIS PRODUCT section, except as provided
under the ADDITIONAL OPTION - SNOW PACK and you have paid
the additional premium for SNOW PACK or under ADDITIONAL
OPTION - ADVENTURE PACK and you have paid the additional
premium for ADVENTURE PACK.
C.2] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, you participating in any race, speed or time trial, or
endurance event except for racing on foot in races for distances up to
and including the full marathon (42.2 kilometres or 26.2 miles).
C.3] Your claim arises because you dive underwater, greater than
10 metres, using an artificial breathing apparatus, except as provided
under the ADDITIONAL OPTION - ADVENTURE PACK and you have
paid the additional premium for ADVENTURE PACK. There is no
cover under this policy if your claim arises due to you diving alone.
C.4] Your claim arises from travel in any air supported device other
than as a passenger in a fully licensed aircraft operated by an airline
or charter company. This exclusion does not apply to regulated or
licensed ballooning.
C.5] Your claim arises from, or is any way associated with you
participating in snow sport activities except as provided under
the ADDITIONAL OPTION - SNOW PACK and you have paid the
additional premium for SNOW PACK
WORDING
C.6] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, you not wearing the appropriate protective clothing
and head protection for the sport or activity you are participating in.
C.7] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is in any way
connected with, you not observing all safety warnings and advice
about adverse weather and terrain conditions.
C.8] Your claim arises from you or your travelling companion
participating in professional sport of any kind.
C.9] Your claim arises directly or indirectly from, or is any way
connected with travel on a cruise vessel except as provided under
the ADDITIONAL OPTION - CRUISE PACK and you have paid the
additional premium for CRUISE PACK. (This exclusion does not apply
to river cruising).